# pseudoscript

Natural language scripting! Translates pseudo code in to valid CoffeeScript/JavaScript.

It's kind of magic...

### Status
Proof of concept.

### Aim
Trying to figure out if it's possible to use natural language for simple scripting, thereby making scripting accessible to non-programmers. As a first demo I've tried to apply the principles I've worked out (see below) to the domain of home automation, since I see great potential for pseudoscript there.

### Principles
Haven't really had time to write down all the principles behind this project must the most important are:
#### Natural language scope
Programming languages are built to be robust and eliminate ambiguity. This is of course very useful but makes also makes them rather unappealing, mechanic and difficult to learn for non-programmers. They also lead to a lot of repetition that natural languages deal with a lot more elegantly. One of the main principles of this project is to introduce more flexible *scope* to scripting, i.e. avoidance of unnecessary repetition. If we're talking about a member of a certain class (e.g. 'lights') we don't need to repeat the identifiers all the time. For example

"turn on the light in the kitchen and set the color of the light in the kitchen to red and set the brightness of the light in the kitchen to 10"

sounds very mechanical. We all know which light we're talking about so instead we'd say something like 

"turn on the light in the kitchen and set the color *[of the light in the kitchen]* to red and *[set]* the brightness *[of the light in the kitchen]* to 10"

One of the basic principles of this project is a **harness the power and elegance of natural language scope** and apply it to (simple) scripting tasks.

[more principles to come...]

### Demo
The following demo shows the input and output of a simple home automation script. The first version is quite expressive and human like and the second terse and to the point. The goal is to leave it up to the user to choose the level of expressiveness.

```
# Expressive
Add a home
Add a room called 'living room' to the home
Add a light called 'ceiling light' to the room and set the color to blue
Every 10 seconds set the color to red and after 1 second, set the color back to blue
After 1 hour 30 minutes and 30 seconds, set the brightness to zero

# Terse
Add home
Add room 'living room' to home
Add light 'ceiling light' to room, set color blue
Every 10s set color red, after 1 s set color blue
Wait 1h30m30s, set brightness 0
```

Both result in identical compiled CoffeeScript:

```
### generated by pseudoscript 0.1 ###

# Adding new Home 'home_0'
new Home('home_0')

# Adding new Room 'living room' to Home 'home_0'
new Room('living room', 'home_0')

# Adding new Light 'ceiling light' to Room 'living room'
new Light('ceiling light', 'living room')

# Setting 'color' of 'ceiling light' to 'blue'
Light.select('ceiling light').set('color', 'blue')

# Setting interval to 10 seconds
setInterval () ->

  # Setting 'color' of 'ceiling light' to 'red'
  Light.select('ceiling light').set('color', 'red')

  # Setting timeout to 1 seconds
  setTimeout () ->

    # Setting 'color' of 'ceiling light' to 'blue'
    Light.select('ceiling light').set('color', 'blue')

  , (1*1000)

, (10*1000)

# Setting timeout to 5430 seconds
setTimeout () ->

  # Setting 'brightness' of 'ceiling light' to '0'
  Light.select('ceiling light').set('brightness', '0')

, (5430*1000)

```


